everyone I'm saying Oh from eight reps
and you're watching a hundred days of
SEO what's up everybody welcome back to
another episode of 100 days of SEO if
you're new here my name is Brendan
huffard I've radically transformed my
life with SEO and the goal of this
project is to help you do the same I'm
here in Chicago hanging out at the
actually called the cloud gate most of
us just call it the beam today we have a
really incredible friends Friday episode
with you we're talking with Sam Oh of
href Sam does video there it's
absolutely incredible work we're gonna
talk about beginner video mistakes
advanced video mistakes and really how
they set up their process at a trust to
be effective producing really high
quality video content if you care about
video SEO if you care about video
marketing if you care about YouTube I
care about all of these things I think
you do too I think video is the future
of SEO definitely stay tuned hey Sam
thanks for joining us for a hundred days
of SEO thanks for having me yeah
absolutely so I'm super excited to dive
into this how do you decide when you're
putting out a new video or thinking
about creating a video on a topic how do
you decide like what to prioritize when
it comes to video and YouTube SEO yeah
so I think the first thing that it comes
down to is business value so we have a
suite of SEO tools and generally
speaking we're not going to release any
content that's where our tools kind of
can't be demonstrated we will have a
feel odd ones like for example on
outreach emails like you don't use 8
reps this said outreach emails but you
do it for link building right and so in
that way oftentimes there is more search
volume around those terms and so those
are the rare ones I'd say it's like 9 to
1 ratio where you won't see anything
related to our tools in there for
example next week we're releasing
something on how how to edit videos for
YouTube and I think in humans explored
shows the search volume of like 45,000
which we can't even get in SEO or
anything like that and so you know those
aren't the ones that are necessarily
prioritized but those are ones that we
do as a part of a broader strategy so
you know obviously you've probably
watched your fair share videos and stuff
what are like mistakes you see beginners
making when it comes to like video SEO
it's funny you mention Casey nice that
because that's kind of one of the first
mistakes that I think I'm not saying
that he makes mistakes like he's great
but he also has millions and millions
and millions of followers and so a lot
of vloggers especially are inspired by
people like Casey and they tried to
imitate this style
in the sense that he doesn't necessarily
go for video SEO based on what I can see
his titles like for example if he says
if he has a new title and it just says
like we finally did it then you know
hundreds of thousands of people are
gonna click on that because they have
somewhat of a relationship with him they
know who he is they've watched you know
up to like four hundred ninety episodes
of his vlog and they're inspired by him
and they just want to know what he's
doing
whereas for example if I were to do that
and put that even on the Atrix channel
which has like 45,000 subscribers like
maybe like five hundred people who will
get excited like we finally did it what
any jobs do but like at the end of the
day you know the other forty thousand
people don't care because they're there
to get free content how-to content or
whatever maybe people like Peter
McKinnon as we were discussing before he
does it really well where he creates in
entertaining kind of entertaining kind
of videos but he also educates with
evergreen comp and so I think the
mistake there is that they're not
actually focusing on SEO whatsoever but
they're trying to become these people
who have already built these audiences
who I'm sure started with you know
keyword targeted videos that were
getting them rankings their videos were
earning them subscribers and engagement
and people wanted to actually watch more
of their videos and you know once we get
to that place where it's let's say for
example we get to a place where at a
million subscribers I can write one of
those titles that we finally did it and
some people more people will actually
care what we did because they've been
following us
but we've built that through SEO I feel
like all my favorite people on YouTube
including yourself are Canadian it's
awesome so like it's just been really
cool to watch people like mix like the
like relational content with like
educational contents a lot of what I'm
trying to do with
days of SEO like just so people can see
my process like what about people who
are maybe a little bit more further
along
are there any mistakes with video SEO
you can see people making that are like
actually trying to do it like they're
maybe a little more advanced the two
things come to mind number 1 or for
youtubers who they they often create
videos I guess excessively keyword
targeting and so for example like
they'll create a video on SEO tactics
then another one on SEO techniques and
and another one on SEO strategies but
it'll be the exact same content just
worded differently and sure you might
rank and maybe it's the best strategy
ever but in my opinion I feel like that
will create subscriber burnout because
you stopped trusting the creator and so
you may build more of an audience in
terms of quantity but I find I would
imagine that the quality of the audience
would go down also because like I've
been subscribed to people like that and
they literally just pump out the exact
same thing over and over and over again
there's no new angle there's no new
strategy there's no new tape and
oftentimes it's because they're not well
at least an SEO they're probably not
practicing actively and so they tend to
just say the same stuff which is fine
like it's okay to use the same
strategies no matter how old they are if
they're working great but at least share
something in a different way I guess
another thing that I see doing and I I
think this happens mostly for SEO s like
Google SEO s is they often repurpose
content on YouTube but you know there
are different levels of repurposing for
example like this this video is meant
for or for YouTube right mm-hmm
yeah and so which is fine so the the
intended purpose of this is for that but
for example like someone will do a
webinar that's an hour and a half that
has you know 45 minute sales pitch at
the end and they'll throw that on
YouTube and it doesn't do very well like
I've never seen one that does
particularly well because the intent of
the platform is very different it needs
to be repurposed in a way that actually
caters to the audience and so I find
that that is a very common I would call
mistake in my opinion it does take more
effort but in terms of the growth that
you can get from doing it in a way to to
I guess entertain or doing engage an
audience on YouTube
yeah the benefits are crazy like we're
seeing more people sign up through
YouTube or they're saying that they
signed up because they found this
something YouTube or whatever be like
how you kind of connected it to things I
like how you kind of connected at full
circle of like you're seeing that
probably because you're creating content
that ties directly and this is one thing
I've always loved about your blog is
like we're not just making content based
on SEO keywords and volume and like we
don't it's not that doesn't ever seem to
be the strategy it's like what does our
tool do what is the buyer journey what
is their level of awareness where does
this tie in how do we like every blog
post is literally a demo of the tool and
it's like hey or even if it's something
really cool and this kind of leads me to
my second point of like I've always felt
like a tree F's has something to say I
know that that's something that I've
talked to Tim a lot about too is like
don't just write about tactics like
write about things you've done and I see
you see a lot of like I mean let's be
honest like me working with HR f sign
100 days of SEO started because Rebecca
wrote a blog post about podcast
sponsorship and I was like oh they're
sponsoring people like I I guess I had
heard you on money lab like I should
reach out and now here you know what I
mean like it's really cool but it's
because you're doing experiments and you
actually have a take and you have
something to say and a lot of people
like you said are SEO techniques SEO
strategy and it's just the same thing
because they don't have anything to say
they don't have anything unique whereas
you know iwata sore from the future and
it's like hey here's things we've done
here's client results here's a case
study here's this crazy analysis of a
thing that's going on right now and it's
like oh we actually like have something
to say and I think that's super engaging
there's a there's a medium between
keyword targeting and content something
I've been hard I've been harping on
within my SEO course SEO for the rest of
us in our slack group and also a lot of
AA hundred days of SEO will be around
search intent can you talk just a little
bit more about how you think about
search intent and then you know also
just share like some of the stuff that
you have coming
or they trust like if we're talking
specifically about YouTube it's a little
bit different than Google I find Google
oftentimes you'll find a very clear
search intent like you might find ten
list posts on the first page and you can
kind of see what people are looking for
based on that YouTube you'll usually see
it in the first three results so I
usually don't look past the first five
results when I'm looking for search
intent so for people who've never
actually tried this you would just
search for a keyword inside YouTube
you'd see the results see what kind of
content they're producing I usually look
at titles lengths and I'll read through
the descriptions of each of those videos
to kind of see what they're doing and I
might skim through some of the videos
and usually when I find that the video
is bad like I'm writing a topic on this
right now or I'm creating a video on
this topic right now and if you can't
sustain my attention then I need to help
do that somehow like there's there's a
leverage there's an advantage point from
you there and so I'll look at at least
the broad scope of what people are
talking about and then I'll kind of take
that broad scope I don't try and
reinvent the wheel but I'll take that
angle and then I'll put in what I think
would be a better fit there in YouTube
analytics
have you used beta studio yet yeah I
have one yes yeah so if you look at the
keyword ranking they actually show you
the average watch time per keyword and
so that for me at least that's an
indication of whether you have served
search intent for that specific keyword
so like we ranked number two for the
keyword SEO but I think are the watch
time on that is longer than the entire
watch time of the first video so I would
suspect that at some point will rank
higher but yeah like the other channel
has way too much authority at channel
Authority and so it's it's tough for us
to actually move there I think we have
it in the engagement set but you know
there are other things that we need to
consider their awesome Sam I appreciate
your time thanks for coming on hundred
days of SEO yeah thanks for having me
and if you want to check out the
extended uncut version of this episode
so unedited beginning to end go to 100
days of seo.com slash join you'll get
access to worksheets and resources from
every single one of the hundred days of
episodes that we're putting out but also
access to every state
unedited video so again that's 100 days
of seo.com slash joined I've been bred
and huffard don't forget to work hard be
nice people and don't get too lost
trying to create something that matters
[Music]